wallet: PSBT channel funding (#4079)
lightningnetwork/lnd: docs/psbt.md

# PSBT

This document describes various use cases around the topic of Partially Signed
Bitcoin Transactions (PSBTs). Currently only channel funding is possible with
PSBTs but more features are planned.

See [BIP174](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0174.mediawiki) for
a full description of the PSBT format and the different _roles_ that a
participant in a PSBT can have.

## Opening a channel by using a PSBT

This is a step-by-step instruction on how to open a channel with `lnd` by using
a PSBT as the funding transaction.  
We will use `bitcoind` to create and sign the transaction just to keep the
example simple. Of course any other PSBT compatible wallet could be used and the
process would likely be spread out over multiple signing steps. The goal of this
example is not to cover each and every possible edge case but to help users of

> `lnd` to understand what inputs the `lncli` utility expects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`lnd` understand what inputs the `lncli` utility expects.
```

The goal is to open a channel of 1'234'567 satoshis to the node
`03db1e56e5f76bc4018cf6f03d1bb98a7ae96e3f18535e929034f85e7f1ca2b8ac` by using
a PSBT. That means, `lnd` can have a wallet balance of `0` and is still able to
open a channel. Let's start.

> ### 1. use the new `--psbt` flag in `lncli openchannel`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Use the new `--psbt` flag in `lncli openchannel`
```

          "addresses": [
            "bcrt1qh33ghvgjj3ef625nl9jxz6nnrz2z9e65vsdey7w5msrklgr6rc0sv0s08q"
          ]
        }
      },
      {
        "value": 48.98759093,
        "n": 1,
        "scriptPubKey": {
          "asm": "0 bfba4c71068726c99ce9051924456ed09c3ce1bc",
          "hex": "0014bfba4c71068726c99ce9051924456ed09c3ce1bc",
          "reqSigs": 1,
          "type": "witness_v0_keyhash",
          "addresses": [
            "bcrt1qh7aycugxsunvn88fq5vjg3tw6zwrecduvvgre5"
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  },
  "unknown": {
  },
  "inputs": [
    {
      "witness_utxo": {
        "amount": 48.99996720,
        "scriptPubKey": {
          "asm": "0 77a6275d5717b094ed65c12092c3fea645fba8eb",
          "hex": "001477a6275d5717b094ed65c12092c3fea645fba8eb",
          "type": "witness_v0_keyhash",
          "address": "bcrt1qw7nzwh2hz7cffmt9cysf9sl75ezlh28tzl4n4e"
        }
      }
    }
  ],
  "outputs": [
    {
    },
    {
    }
  ],
  "fee": 0.00003060
}
```

This tells us that we got a PSBT with a big input, the channel output and a
change output for the rest. Everything is there but the signatures/witness data,
which is exactly what we need.

> ### 3. verify and sign the PSBT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3. Verify and sign the PSBT
```

# PSBT

This document describes various use cases around the topic of Partially Signed
Bitcoin Transactions (PSBTs). Currently only channel funding is possible with
PSBTs but more features are planned.

See [BIP174](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0174.mediawiki) for
a full description of the PSBT format and the different _roles_ that a
participant in a PSBT can have.

## Opening a channel by using a PSBT

> This is a step-by-step instruction on how to open a channel with `lnd` by using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a step-by-step guide on how to open a channel with `lnd` by using
```

a PSBT as the funding transaction.  
We will use `bitcoind` to create and sign the transaction just to keep the
example simple. Of course any other PSBT compatible wallet could be used and the
process would likely be spread out over multiple signing steps. The goal of this
example is not to cover each and every possible edge case but to help users of
`lnd` understand what inputs the `lncli` utility expects.

The goal is to open a channel of 1'234'567 satoshis to the node
`03db1e56e5f76bc4018cf6f03d1bb98a7ae96e3f18535e929034f85e7f1ca2b8ac` by using
a PSBT. That means, `lnd` can have a wallet balance of `0` and is still able to
open a channel. We'll jump into an example right away.

> But first we need to mention a small caveat of this new funding flow: _Time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This new funding flow has a small caveat: _time
```

matters_.  

> When opening a channel using the PSBT flow, we start the negotiation

Reviewer: Nit: either introduce a newline before or merge this line with the one above.

between `lncli` and the user. Below the command you see an example output from
a regtest setup. Of course all values will be different.

```bash
$ lncli openchannel --node_key 03db1e56e5f76bc4018cf6f03d1bb98a7ae96e3f18535e929034f85e7f1ca2b8ac --local_amt 1234567 --psbt

Starting PSBT funding flow with pending channel ID fc7853889a04d33b8115bd79ebc99c5eea80d894a0bead40fae5a06bcbdccd3d.
PSBT funding initiated with peer 03db1e56e5f76bc4018cf6f03d1bb98a7ae96e3f18535e929034f85e7f1ca2b8ac.
Please create a PSBT that sends 0.01234567 BTC (1234567 satoshi) to the funding address bcrt1qh33ghvgjj3ef625nl9jxz6nnrz2z9e65vsdey7w5msrklgr6rc0sv0s08q.

Example with bitcoind:
        bitcoin-cli walletcreatefundedpsbt [] '[{"bcrt1qh33ghvgjj3ef625nl9jxz6nnrz2z9e65vsdey7w5msrklgr6rc0sv0s08q":0.01234567}]'

Or if you are using a wallet that can fund a PSBT directly (currently not
possible with bitcoind), you can use this PSBT that contains the same address
and amount: cHNidP8BADUCAAAAAAGH1hIAAAAAACIAILxii7ESlHKdKpP5ZGFqcxiUIudUZBuSedTcB2+geh4fAAAAAAAA

Paste the funded PSBT here to continue the funding flow.
Base64 encoded PSBT:
```

> The command line now waits until a PSBT is pasted in there. We'll create one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command line now waits until a PSBT is entered. We'll create one
```
